hi I'm visa and I'm gonna talk to you
about the new pub/sub protocol in Libby
2pn ipfs okay so before we talk about
the new protocol let's talk about the
old protocol and how it all started so
the first implementation of pub/sub in
ipfs only p2p was flood son so that's
the simplest possible particle you can
write and it relies on two things I'm
being pretty discovery and flood routing
so let me explain what this actually
means I'm in peer discovery means that
there is no active discovery for peers
instead you rely on connection events on
ambient connection events and let an
external process drive your prayer
discovery so this makes it very nice and
simple to compose with Orbitz article
discovery options so the second part
which is the important part is the
routing because pub/sub is all about
writing messages to all the recipients
it used to be called multicast biocked
in the old days but now we don't even we
don't do multicast we do pub/sub so
floods abuses flood routing which means
when you receive a message so you want
to forward it you just send it to
everybody who are connected to and where
it's on the topic so let's get some kind
of interesting properties so it's
obviously trivial to implement and it's
kind of robust because no matter what
you do you know that even though you
might use a lot of bandwidth you know
you're gonna receive deliver your
messages and the most important part is
that it actually has minimum latency
because it takes the minimum latency
paths across your graph now the problem
is of course that this is it doesn't
take just a minimal latency path it
takes all the paths in the graph so this
makes it run with an efficient and most
problematic for all is address unbounded
degree flooding that means that if you
gave a lot of connections or we're going
to send you know we have a huge
amplification factor which is a problem
for highly connected nodes and you know
like large-scale overlays okay so how
are we gonna control the flood and build
a protocol that actually scales without
breaking down the network so how was it
sub works basically it's a randomized
mess construction so we start with our
underlay which is basically all the
connections that we have and
construction of an overlay mess but
first selecting a random number of pairs
with a couple of parameters and then
self-stabilizing this overlay within
some relaxation parameters so
effectively what we have here is a
parameter control amplification factor
because it's the parameters of the
protocol which is in the actual
implementation it's about six okay and
we trade latency for bandwidth
efficiency so on stop on
top of the overlay construction we
actually augment the mess with gospel
forget about flow me the data so to the
peers that were not sending messages we
occasionally send gossip message such as
hey here are the messages that are here
and if you want you can ask them for
them for them and this allows us to jump
hops for example if you happen to have
an overlay that although you have a node
you are connected to it might be in a
long distance from you so this allows
you to jump hops and directly send send
you the messages and also more
importantly it allows us to repair
overlay pathologies so for example if we
happen to have it's very unlikely unless
you are under attack to go into a state
that basically the overlay becomes
disconnected then the the gossip
propagation allows you to repair this
and turn it into a possible network so
and less than most important perhaps is
that they also allows us to have an
extensible protocol so gossips appease
you don't like a baseline protocol on
which you can build other protocol to do
so we can do that by adding more control
messages to the gossip that gets
propagated so one of the one of the
extensions were already working on it's
epidemic vodka streets on top of gossips
are so we never got to talk I'm just
going to give you a demo to illustrate
how this works so first I'm going to
capture the random seed so that both
simulations I'm gonna I'm using their
network simulator here the route to do a
network simulator the route you while
developing gossip sub but you're like
the same thing this happens the same
code as it runs when they go a little
bit nicer so first I'm going to run a
flat sup simulator I'm gonna we're going
to see a bunch of fat with the
simulation running first the other
ladies connecting
okay now the simulation will start and
basically all the messages are
propagating and then the simulator waits
a little bit for the net over the quiet
down before calling a day and stopping
the simulation so once it stops its
going to give us a little summary that
says that basically
where's the hundred nodes and I should
say that we have ten connections for
each node and basically we sent a single
methods and we generated seventeen
hundred and eighty six publish events so
basically our ability Asian factor is a
nice and round 17 okay so let's run now
the same thing with gossip table and I
should say that sending a single message
is absolutely the worst case scenario
that we can hear for gossip table
because you're paying the cost of
building
they now actually sending gossip when
you're only sending a single message but
even though we're sending in a single
message this square the simulation will
look like so in subsequent simulations
I'm going to stop displaying the traces
it's running live and we'll just give a
blank screen instead of getting all this
junk coming down on Emacs but what
happens here is we're going to say that
it comes with amplification factor of
about six but here we're paying the cost
of the gossip okay and to make this more
concrete I'm going to animate it
that's what flats up looks like so you
can see the flood happening okay but
it's really fast okay it's so fast in
fact you can actually check the message
delay you can say it took like 200
milliseconds to send the message go to
this hundred nodes now gossip sab is
going to look like that okay it's much
more modest it doesn't blow up the
network and we see these horns things
popping up these are the gossip
propagation now after we've sent the
message we have a little bit of a tail
this is the gossip that keeps
propagating about the messages here I
should say that doesn't take that long
in real life but you know the simulator
is doing 10 milliseconds in in a hundred
milliseconds so this only takes like
three seconds but it's gonna take like
30 seconds right wait for the full 30
seconds for that now let's make things
more interesting let's increase our
connectivity let's say that we have 20
connections for it okay and before I do
that this should actually we should
actually take the delay so we have
something to compare so instead of 200
millisecond middle seconds to 260
milliseconds which is not so bad okay
now I'm gonna run a simulation that
basically uses 20 connect suspend on
this keyboard really sax that's what I
have to say okay now I'm I'm running in
quiet mode so it's gonna take a few
seconds so the simulator is running in
real time it's not simulating time so
this actually gives us real time so
that's why it takes so long to run the
simulation and after
I'm gonna run you know like the same
simulation with gossip tab and here is
the first interesting fact so once we
increased our connections to 20 or
amplification factor in floods have 10
to 35 so that's already being bad and
we're going to compare the same thing
with gossip tab I'm gonna see that the
amplification factor remains in round
six and we have we still kept our gossip
but now even though we're sending the
gossip messages and the early
construction see the overall messages
were sending in total is actually much
lower than the flats up and in order to
drive so we can see that's our
amplification factor so we still just
six six point 18 and we had you know
like a bunch of gossip messages that
lingered on now to get a better view of
what actually happened in the network
twenty connections let's look at the
flats AB and hearing floods have
suddenly gonna break the network but
it's very fast gossips have on the same
on the other world on the other hand
simply remain remains maintains the
simple the same modest profile Noah grew
almost nothing is changed a little bit
of margosa basically getting sent out
because we have more connections okay
and Stan already so this is the gossip
that this lingering on for about three
seconds which becomes thirty seconds on
the animation and now I'm gonna do the
same thing for something that's not
worst-case scenario for gossip tab but
instead let's say that we send ten
messages within the span of two seconds
like ten message for five cents per
second now floods app is going to cave
the same you know a horrible row file
but you're in gossip table is going to
amortize the cost of the gossip and now
it becomes suddenly much more combating
protocol that gets not like a very very
good amplification factor compared to
whatsapp so we see here so we publish
ten messages who delivered two thousand
which means all hundred notes got it and
we had you know like an amplification
factor of 35
on the other hand gossips AB it's gonna
run a little bit you guys can read it
right all right yeah I'm screen
capturing so it should be much more
easier to read on the script getting a
screen capture thing and now we see that
our modifications factor remains you
know look at them around six was where
it's covering and if you get some factor
from a gossip is about two which is
basically we end up with a totally
forgets the factor was about a so if
we're sending higher rate the gossip is
going to amortize even better and
because it's sending you know like once
every second approximately and it
resists for about three rounds of gossip
so messages are announced for three
seconds okay so we have higher rate of
messages the camps no like even better
and you like to drive the point forward
let's look at flat sub that and let's
enjoy you know like the flat as its
ranking the red words gonna be a lot
more obvious because now we're having
all the messes propagating at the same
time yep and the interesting part is
that now we're sending more messages if
we look at the total delay for a
transmission of all these messages the
delay advantage of flood sap is
basically disappeared because you know
like we count a ton of delay to send all
20 messages and i'm gonna calculate this
real soon okay
so that took you know 1.91 seconds
gossips had to 2.04 seconds so you know
exactly advantage becomes marginal from
floods have but the amplification factor
advantage for gossip sab is huge and
just to close that I'm gonna with
simulation over modest gossip sab
they're just sending unrest this without
ever flooding the network okay and
that's about it okay yeah that's small
tornadoes okay so it's now it's already
available in IPA face it spreads in but
you have to know bleach which I mean
pubs have is still considered
experimental my PFS we're soon gonna
make it non experimental now that we
have methyl signing and you can enable
gossip tab with an option with a
configuration option it's all recommend
it in the experimental option so that
one of the big and important parts is
that it's completely backwards
compatible with floods app so you can
mix and match floods app and go some sub
nodes gossips app what it sees a flood
sub node it's going to behave like
clouds up to it okay if you're going to
read the spec that's the URL that's the
go implementation and that's the
simulator that I used down there thank
you guys